{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 VibeSwap on Nervos CKB: A Progress Report for the Community\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i February 2026}\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 What Is VibeSwap?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 VibeSwap is a decentralized exchange designed around one core idea: nobody should be able to profit by seeing your trade before it happens. On most blockchains today, sophisticated actors can watch your pending transactions and jump ahead of you \u8211- buying before you buy, selling before you sell, and pocketing the difference. This is called MEV (Maximal Extractable Value), and it costs everyday users billions of dollars per year. VibeSwap eliminates it entirely.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Instead of processing trades one at a time (where order matters, and front-runners thrive), VibeSwap collects trades in batches. During each batch, orders are submitted as sealed envelopes \u8211- nobody can see what anyone else is trading. After the collection window closes, all envelopes are opened, shuffled in a provably random order, and settled at a single fair price. Everyone in the batch gets the same deal. No front-running. No sandwich attacks. No information advantage.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Why CKB Is the Ideal Home\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 VibeSwap launched on Ethereum-compatible chains, where it works well \u8211- but it is working against the grain. Ethereum\u8217's architecture lets anyone read and write to shared state for the cost of gas, which is precisely the property that enables MEV in the first place. VibeSwap has to fight the chain\u8217's own design to protect users.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 CKB is different. Its Cell Model treats every piece of state as an independent object that must be explicitly consumed and recreated. There is no global shared state that anyone can casually peek at or modify. This structural property \u8211- which might seem like a limitation \u8211- turns out to be a profound advantage for anti-MEV design. On CKB, the things VibeSwap has to enforce through clever mechanism design on Ethereum become natural properties of the chain itself.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A key breakthrough came from community member Matt, who proposed using proof-of-work to control access to shared cells. Instead of a centralized operator deciding who gets to update a cell (which would defeat the purpose of hiding orders), anyone can earn write access by doing computational work. This is the same principle that secures Bitcoin, applied at the application level. It means no single party controls the flow of information \u8211- and therefore nobody can exploit it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 What We Have Built So Far\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The EVM side of VibeSwap is mature. There are 123 Solidity smart contracts covering everything from the core auction mechanism and automated market maker, to insurance pools, governance, cross-chain messaging, and a full identity system. Over 2,300 tests pass across the suite, including fuzz tests (random inputs to find edge cases) and invariant tests (mathematical properties that must always hold true). Seven audit passes have been completed. The frontend is live with 51 components and CKB wallet support already wired in.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The CKB port is not a simple copy-paste. It is a ground-up reimplementation in Rust, designed specifically for the Cell Model. As of today, we have 14 Rust crates (code libraries), 8 CKB scripts compiled to RISC-V binaries ready for deployment, a transaction-building SDK with 9 operation types, a proof-of-work mining client, and 190 passing tests \u8211- including adversarial tests that verify miners cannot censor or manipulate trades.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 The Five-Layer Defense\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Think of VibeSwap on CKB as a castle with five walls, each stopping a different kind of attack:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wall 1 \u8211- Proof-of-Work Gating.} To update the auction\u8217's state, you must do real computational work. You cannot simply pay more gas to jump the queue. This eliminates speed-based front-running at the infrastructure level \u8211- something impossible on Ethereum.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wall 2 \u8211- Commit Accumulation.} Orders are collected into an efficient mathematical structure (a Merkle Mountain Range) that makes the full history of every batch independently verifiable by anyone, without trusting a third party.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wall 3 \u8211- Forced Inclusion.} The protocol rules require that every valid pending order must be included in the next batch update. Miners cannot selectively drop orders they do not like. A compliance filter (for regulatory requirements) is the only exception, and it is enforced by the protocol itself \u8211- not by miner judgment.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wall 4 \u8211- Random Shuffle.} After orders are revealed, they are shuffled using a provably random seed generated from the traders\u8217' own secrets. Nobody can predict or influence the execution order.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wall 5 \u8211- Uniform Clearing Price.} Every trade in the batch settles at the same price. Even if an attacker somehow got through the first four walls, there is nothing to exploit \u8211- everyone pays the same rate.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Where Things Stand Now\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 All seven planned implementation phases are complete: math libraries, core scripts, AMM and token integration, infrastructure cells, the SDK and mining client, frontend hooks, and comprehensive testing. The RISC-V build pipeline produces deployable binaries for all eight scripts. The frontend already detects CKB wallets and routes operations through the CKB-specific hooks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The next steps are deployment to CKB testnet, live integration testing, difficulty tuning for the proof-of-work system, and community feedback on the mechanism parameters. The go-live sprint is underway.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 A Collaborative Vision\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 VibeSwap is not being built in isolation. Three independent teams converged on complementary pieces of the same puzzle: Will and Jarvis on mechanism design and the VibeSwap protocol itself; tbhxnest on GenTu, a persistent execution substrate providing the mathematical foundation; and Freedomwarrior13 on the IT native object, a vision for self-sovereign code units that carry their own identity. Each group arrived at overlapping conclusions from different starting points \u8211- one from biology, one from mathematics, one from financial mechanism design. The synthesis is a protocol where humans and AI agents alike can contribute, be recognized, and be rewarded proportionally through transparent, verifiable systems.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 CKB\u8217's architecture makes it uniquely suited to host this vision. The Cell Model\u8217's explicit state dependencies, RISC-V flexibility, and Bitcoin-compatible proof-of-work create a foundation where anti-MEV guarantees are structural \u8211- not aspirational. We are excited to be building here, and we look forward to the community\u8217's feedback as we move toward mainnet.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i VibeSwap is open source. Questions, feedback, and contributions are welcome.}\par}
